docs: gitea webhook receiver (#4461)
akuity/kargo: docs/docs/50-user-guide/60-reference-docs/80-webhook-receivers/gitea/index.md

---
sidebar_label: Gitea
---

# The Gitea Webhook Receiver

The Gitea Webhook Receiver will respond to `push` events originating from
Gitea repositories.

In response to a `push` event, the receiver "refreshes" Warehouses subscribed to
the Git repository from which the event originated.

:::info
"Refreshing" a `Warehouse` resource means enqueuing it for immediate
reconciliation by the Kargo controller, which will execute the discovery of
new artifacts from all repositories to which that `Warehouse` subscribes.
:::

> 

Reviewer: For some of the other receivers, if there are multiple hosting options, we mention in an infobox around here compatibility with those options (assuming it is indeed compatible with them all). For Gitea, I know there's cloud and Enterprise. But Gitea's also OSS... I think self-hosted non-Enterprise is also a thing.

## Configuring the Receiver

> The Gitea webhook receiver will need to reference a Kubernetes `Secret` with a
> `secret` key in its data map. This
> [shared secret](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shared_secret) will be used by
> Gitea to sign requests. The receiver will use it to authenticate those requests
> by verifying their signatures.

Reviewer: Small tweak for consistency and brevity.

```suggestion
A Gitea webhook receiver must reference a Kubernetes `Secret` resource with a
`secret` key in its data map. This
[shared secret](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shared_secret) will be used by
Gitea to sign requests and by the receiver to verify those signatures.
```

:::note
The following commands are suggested for generating and base64-encoding a
complex secret:

```shell
secret=$(openssl rand -base64 48 | tr -d '=+/' | head -c 32)
echo "Secret: $secret"
echo "Encoded secret: $(echo -n $secret | base64)"
```
:::

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: kargo-demo
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: gitea-wh-secret
  namespace: kargo-demo
data:
  secret: <base64-encoded secret>
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectConfig
metadata:
  name: kargo-demo
  namespace: kargo-demo
spec:
  webhookReceivers: 
    - name: gitea-wh-receiver
      gitlab:
        secretRef:
          name: gitea-wh-secret
```

## Retrieving the Receiver's URL

> Kargo will generate a hard-to-guess URL from the configuration. We can obtain
> this URL using the following command:

Reviewer: Consistency with other receiver docs:

```suggestion
Kargo will generate a hard-to-guess URL from the receiver's configuration. This
URL can be obtained using a command such as the following:
```

```shell
kubectl get projectconfigs kargo-demo \
  -n kargo-demo \
  -o=jsonpath='{.status.webhookReceivers}'
```

## Registering with Gitea

1. Navigate to `https://gitea.com/<namespace>/<repo>/settings/hooks`, where
   `<namespace>` has been replaced with a Gitea username or group name and
   `<project>` has been replaced with the name of a project belonging to that

>    namespace and for which you are an administrator.

Reviewer: I'm actually impressed with Gitea's array of options for registering webhooks. They can be registered at the repo level, org level, or even user level. Fortunately, the form seems to be the same for all cases.

As far as I can tell, all of these work:

* Repo level: `https://gitea.com/<namespace>/<repo>/settings/hooks` (exactly as you describe above)
* All repos belonging to an org: `https://gitea.com/org/<org>/settings/hooks`
* All repos belonging to a user: `https://gitea.com/user/settings/hooks`

    ![Settings](./img/settings.png "Settings")

> 1. Click <Hlt>Add Webhook</Hlt>.

Reviewer: Stop me if I'm wrong about this...

This seems to open a dropdown and, somewhat unintuitively, you need to select `Gitea` from those options. (Something like `HTTP` would have made more sense.) Unintuitive as this is, we probably need to be explicit here about what to select from that dropdown.

---
sidebar_label: Gitea
---

# The Gitea Webhook Receiver

The Gitea Webhook Receiver will respond to `push` events originating from
Gitea repositories.

In response to a `push` event, the receiver "refreshes" Warehouses subscribed to
the Git repository from which the event originated.

:::info
"Refreshing" a `Warehouse` resource means enqueuing it for immediate
reconciliation by the Kargo controller, which will execute the discovery of
new artifacts from all repositories to which that `Warehouse` subscribes.
:::

## Configuring the Receiver

The Gitea webhook receiver will need to reference a Kubernetes `Secret` with a
`secret` key in its data map. This
[shared secret](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shared_secret) will be used by
Gitea to sign requests. The receiver will use it to authenticate those requests
by verifying their signatures.

:::note
The following commands are suggested for generating and base64-encoding a
complex secret:

```shell
secret=$(openssl rand -base64 48 | tr -d '=+/' | head -c 32)
echo "Secret: $secret"
echo "Encoded secret: $(echo -n $secret | base64)"
```

> 
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: kargo-demo
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: gitea-wh-secret
  namespace: kargo-demo
data:
  secret: <base64-encoded secret>
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectConfig
metadata:
  name: kargo-demo
  namespace: kargo-demo
spec:
  webhookReceivers: 
    - name: gitea-wh-receiver
      gitlab:
        secretRef:
          name: gitea-wh-secret
```

## Retrieving the Receiver's URL

Kargo will generate a hard-to-guess URL from the configuration. We can obtain
this URL using the following command:

```shell
kubectl get projectconfigs kargo-demo \
  -n kargo-demo \
  -o=jsonpath='{.status.webhookReceivers}'
```

## Registering with Gitea

> https://gitea.com/farisakuity/webhook-poc/settings/hooks

Reviewer 2: Think this should be removed?

    ![Webhooks Form](./img/form.png " Webhooks Form")

    1. Set the <Hlt>Target URL</Hlt> to the URL
       [for the webhook receiver](#retrieving-the-receivers-url).

    1. Set <Hlt>Secret</Hlt> to the value assigned to the `secret`
       key of the `Secret` referenced by the
       [webhook receiver's configuration](#configuring-the-receiver).

    1. In the <Hlt>Trigger On</Hlt> section, ensure <Hlt>Push Events</Hlt> is
       checked.

    1. Click <Hlt>Add Webhook</Hlt>.

1. From the <Hlt>Webhooks settings</Hlt> click on the newly created webhook.

    ![Webhooks](./img/created.png "Webhooks")

1. Scroll down to <Hlt>Recent Deliveries</Hlt>.

1. Click <Hlt>Test Delivery</Hlt>.

    ![Test Button](./img/test.png "Test Button")

    :::note
    This will trigger a `Warehouse` refresh. It's ok if none are configured.
    This will simply result in a 200 stating 0 `Warehouse`s were refreshed.
    :::

1. Scroll down to <Hlt>Recent Deliveries</Hlt> again.

    ![Recent Deliveries](./img/recent-deliveries.png "Recent Deliveries")

1. Click on the delivery.

1. Click the <Hlt>Response</Hlt> tab and verify it was successful.

    ![Response](./img/response.png "Response")

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

    ![Webhooks Form](./img/form.png " Webhooks Form")

    1. Set the <Hlt>Target URL</Hlt> to the URL
       [for the webhook receiver](#retrieving-the-receivers-url).

    1. Set <Hlt>Secret</Hlt> to the value assigned to the `secret`
       key of the `Secret` referenced by the
       [webhook receiver's configuration](#configuring-the-receiver).

    1. In the <Hlt>Trigger On</Hlt> section, ensure <Hlt>Push Events</Hlt> is
       checked.

    1. Click <Hlt>Add Webhook</Hlt>.

1. From the <Hlt>Webhooks settings</Hlt> click on the newly created webhook.

    ![Webhooks](./img/created.png "Webhooks")

1. Scroll down to <Hlt>Recent Deliveries</Hlt>.

1. Click <Hlt>Test Delivery</Hlt>.

    ![Test Button](./img/test.png "Test Button")

    :::note
    This will trigger a `Warehouse` refresh. It's ok if none are configured.
    This will simply result in a 200 stating 0 `Warehouse`s were refreshed.
    :::

1. Scroll down to <Hlt>Recent Deliveries</Hlt> again.

    ![Recent Deliveries](./img/recent-deliveries.png "Recent Deliveries")

1. Click on the delivery.

1. Click the <Hlt>Response</Hlt> tab and verify it was successful.

    ![Response](./img/response.png "Response")

> :::info

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::info
```

---
sidebar_label: Gitea
---

# The Gitea Webhook Receiver

The Gitea webhook receiver responds to `push` events originating from Gitea
repositories by _refreshing_ all `Warehouse` resources subscribed to those
repositories.

:::info
"Refreshing" a `Warehouse` resource means enqueuing it for immediate
reconciliation by the Kargo controller, which will execute the discovery of
new artifacts from all repositories to which that `Warehouse` subscribes.
:::

:::info
The Gitea webhook receiver also works with Gitea Enterprise Gitea Cloud.
:::

## Configuring the Receiver

A Gitea webhook receiver must reference a Kubernetes `Secret` resource with a
`secret` key in its data map. This
[shared secret](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shared_secret) will be used by
Gitea to sign requests and by the receiver to verify those signatures.

:::note
The following commands are suggested for generating and base64-encoding a
complex secret:

```shell
secret=$(openssl rand -base64 48 | tr -d '=+/' | head -c 32)
echo "Secret: $secret"
echo "Encoded secret: $(echo -n $secret | base64)"
```
:::

```yaml

> apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
> kind: Project
> metadata:
>   name: kargo-demo
> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
